== Compiling from Source ===

=== Checking Out the Source from Subversion ===

Checking out the GWT-Ext source is most useful if you plan to compile GWT-Ext yourself. The pre-built GWT-Ext distribution already contains all the Java source, so you don't actually need to check it out from the repository just to debug through it. Just tweak your IDE to read source from the GWT-Ext jars.

GWT-Ext is hosted on [http://code.google.com/hosting/ Google Code] project hosting, so you check out the source for GWT-Ext using a Subversion client as you would for any other project hosted on Google Code:

{{{ svn checkout http://gwt-ext.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ trunk }}}

The [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-ext/source project source code access page] has additional instructions for browsing the [http://gwt-ext.googlecode.com/svn/ source online] or [http://subversion.tigris.org/links.html#clients getting a Subversion client] if you don't already have one.

=== Compiling from Source ===

Other than a few native libs, everything is Java source that can be built on any supported platform with the included GWT-Ext [http://ant.apache.org/ Ant] build files. At the moment, you can only build the native code binaries on Linux, and even then with a bit of effort that is currently beyond the scope of this document. To keep things simple, we've checked in pre-built native binaries. 

 * Install [Apache Ant 1.6.5  http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi] or later. We'll assume that the ant command is in your path.

 * Check out the GWT-Ext prerequisite tools and third-party libraries:
     {{{ ~/gwt-ext$ svn checkout http://gwt-ext.googlecode.com/svn/tools/ tools }}} 

 * Check out the GWT-Ext source:
     {{{ ~/gwt-ext$ svn checkout http://gwt-ext.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ trunk }}}

 * Switch to the directory into which you checked out the GWT-Ext source. Let's assume you checked it out into ~/gwt-ext/trunk. Make sure you're in that directory..
     {{{ ~/gwt-ext$ cd ~/gwt-ext/trunk }}}
  then just invoke Ant
     {{{ ant  }}}

  * The GWT-Ext build creates each binary distribution in the build/dist  subdirectory of the source root directory. In this example, the distributions would be in ~/gwt-ext/trunk/build.

=== Testing ===
 * To perform the tests, simply run 
     {{{ ant test }}} 
   and verify that there are no failures.


=== Ant JUnit Issues ===
There is a problem, detailed at ant.apache.org, where ant cannot find the JUnit classes. The simple workaround is to either:
  * Delete ant-junit.jar from the ant lib directory (for example, /usr/share/ant/lib/)
  * Copy junit.jar into your ant lib directory



